[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: So what we gonna use Redux
for now is we're gonna fire off an action
when this button is pressed and
then we're also going to list them here.
So the first thing we want to do
is we've got to figure out, so
where do we actually
want to put this action?
Do we wanna put it in this Todo.js?
Do we wanna put in this TodoForm?
So typically what you would do is you
would put it in the highest component and
you would pass it in as a prop.
That's typically what you would do but
we're only two levels deep so
what I'm gonna do instead is actually
I'm gonna do it here in this TodoForm.
I'm just gonna show you how to connect and
we're gonna use the action here and
we're just gonna to dispatch from here.
So the next thing we need to do is
in this TodoForm is we'll import,
>> Scott Moss: Connect from 'react-redux'.
And what connect means is
all this is going to do is
just look at the context
of this component.
And it's gonna give this component
the state that we want and
attach it to a properties.
That's it.
So remember the only two piece of state
we have in our store right now which were
todos and user.
This is going to allow
us to grab those and
attach it to our properties,
our props coming in.
The reason we want to do that is when that
state updates, so will the template for
this for this component.
So that's why we're gonna
attach it to the props.
So what you want to do now is
we're gonna use connect and
all connect does is it takes
two optional arguments,
the map of the state you want and
then some possible actions.
So the state that we
want is actually none.
We don't want any state in this form,
we actually only want to do an action.
So, we'll say const mapActionsToProps,
and that's just going to take
the dispatcher and redux.
And all we need to do is just
return an object here so
I'm gonna just do an implicit return
by using these parentheses and
then placing an object in there.
That's just saying return an object.
That's what that is saying right there.
So I'm going to do that.
And then I just want to make a method
called, as I said, createTodo.
So createTodo, that's what I want to do.
And what createTodo is,
it's just gonna take a Todo,
>> Scott Moss: And all it's gonna do
is dispatch an action and an action is
just an object that has a type property,
remember we talked about this, a type
property and it's gonna have a payload.
So the payload is going to be the Todo.
And then the type we had defined and
the reducers is this CREATE_TODO.
So I'm just gonna export that so
we can use it.
There we go.
I'll just type it in for now.
So the type is CREATE_TODO
>> Scott Moss: So
everybody see the flow now?
So when this action is dispatched with
this type CREATE_TODO, Redux is going,
okay, let me head over to the reducers,
let me run that through
the reducers right quick.
It's gonna run it through our reducers.
Look, we have a switch statement for
that specific type.
So when it sees that,
now it's gonna execute this.
And that's gonna be the new state.
And then when that new state comes,
whatever is subscribed to the new state,
which in this case nothing yet,
is gonna be updated with the new state.
Does that make sense, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Will it
run through user too?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, it'll run it through
user which isn't doing anything but
it will, it will run it through user, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Question from Charles.
Do you generally use action creators
rather than actions in your own work?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, I always use
action creators and you will too.
And in the sweat book app,
there's action creators.
>> Scott Moss: Action creators is a
function that makes an action compared to
what we just did which is just
we inlined this action here.
So typically you'll have a function
that makes this action for you.
But we just inlined it.
Cool, so
now we have this map to actions and
then what we can do is we can connect
this TodoForm, [COUGH], excuse me.
>> Speaker 3: I have a question.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Line 12-
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: I don't know
if this is an ES6 thing.
I'm confused by the the syntax where
you're returning an object but
it's a function inside that object?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, so
what's happening here is let's just get
rid of this right quick and
then we'll come back to it.
So the first thing is
mapActionsToProps is a function
that takes dispatch as an argument, right?
And then I'm implicitly
returning an object, so-
>> Speaker 3: I get that part.
>> Scott Moss: Okay.
>> Speaker 3: It's just
the function inlined
inside an object literal.
>> Scott Moss: So this part right here,
this is the method shortcut.
You can create methods on an object.
The same way you would do it on a class,
the same way we did it here.
It's the same thing, yeah.
So you can do that on objects too now.
But unlike a class, you still gotta put
commas after them for the next one.
Whereas a class, you don't need commas.
>> Speaker 3: Thanks.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, the other way you
can do it is you can just say this and
it will still be the same or
use the function keyword.
Either way will work.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, thanks.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, any other questions?
No, okay,
>> Speaker 2: Yep, yep, sorry.
So Mark H from the channel is asking can
you review, why not set up connect and
action dispatch in Todo, the higher
level component rather than TodoForm?
>> Scott Moss: You can, you can.
I was just trying to get a deeper example.
But yeah, you can set it up but
typically what people do is,
see the Todo is the root.
It's almost an anti-pattern
to connect in a root.
And the only reason that's a good
example here is because we're doing so
much in the root, but
in most applications you wouldn't do all
of this inside of a root of the app.
This root of the app would just be
an empty shell that's somewhere else.
I mean, in fact,
that's probably what we can do,
would make more sense if I just do that?
We could just do that right quick,
actually.
Let's just make an empty shell.
And we'll just call it main.js.
>> Scott Moss: So this is a real pattern
which this is what we're gonna be doing.
So you just have an empty shell and
we're just gonna export a const called
Main and it's literally nothing.
It's just going to house
our other components.
This is gonna be a entry point.
That's all it's gonna be.
>> Scott Moss: Oops.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
And then it will import Todo in here.
>> Scott Moss: And then we can
literally just put Todo like that,
just like we have before.
There we go.
So we'll just have main there,
bring a Todo in and just head
over to our index.iOS or Android,
whichever one you're using,
and just bring in Main.
>> Scott Moss: There you go.
>> Speaker 2: That's not gonna
work, though.
Cuz of the const main, aren't you.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, I have a const Main.
So we can say Main as Root.
>> Scott Moss: And we just call this Root.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
>> Scott Moss: So
it's still gonna be the same.
So now it actually makes sense to
do the connect inside of Todo and
not TodoForm because you don't really
want to connect to this thing right here.
This is a thing that's being provided.
It's usually the children of this,
but in our example,
our root was actually doing so much.
It was like whoa, which one?
So that's why I figured it
make more sense if we do that.
So now what we can do is yeah, we can go
ahead and bring that connect over from
TodoForm,
>> Scott Moss: And
bring it into Todo.js.
Same code here.
There we go.
>> Scott Moss: All right,
so we have the action.
We have this connect.
Now we're actually gonna connect it.
Before I connect it, any questions so far?
I just made some quick changes.
>> Scott Moss: Any questions
on why I changed it?
So I changed it because the root
component again is usually just a shell.
Usually just a big container
that does nothing.
But in this example, it was doing a lot so
it was like well, where do I connect?
So I made sure that we had a shell called
Main.js that does absolutely nothing and
then now we can connect inside this
Todo component which is actually more
interesting and is gonna do stuff.
So that's actually the approach you're
gonna see in every Redux application.
All right, so
now that we have these actions here.
What we can do is we just
wanna go ahead and attach.
We want to fire off this action
whenever we want a Todo to be created.
Let's just do that now.
So where are we creating a todo?
Where in here is the Todo being created?
What method?
>> Speaker 4: handlePress.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, handlePress.
So in handlePress, instead of setting the
state here cuz we're not gonna be keeping
track of state anymore,
we actually just want to go ahead and
fire off the action of new Todo.
So we can just get rid of all of this
cuz there's no more local state,
actually there might still be a newTodo.
But we'll just get rid of that for now.
And then in step, what we'll say
is we wanna be able to access this
method on the properties
of this component.
So that's where connect comes in.
So before we connect,
what we're gonna be able to do
is we're gonna say this.props.the name of
the method we want which is createTodo.
If you look at createTodo,
it just takes in the Todo which
is just gonna be the text.
And we know that the text is
gonna be this.state.newTodo.
So that's not gonna work because
we haven't connected it.
So now if we actually want to connect it,
there's a couple ways we can do it, but
I'm gonna do it the simplest way.
I'm just gonna rename this to _Todo
cuz I need that to do namespace.
And underneath it what I'm gonna do is,
yeah,
underneath it,
I'm gonna come down here and
I'm gonna say export const
the real Todo = connect.
>> Scott Moss: So
we're gonna connect here.
And let's just bring this down here so
we can have it right next to us so
it makes more sense.
>> Scott Moss: And we're gonna
pass in null here for the state.
So the first argument is if you
wanna map state to the properties.
We're not doing that just yet,
we're just mapping actions.
And we're just gonna pass in
that function that we just made
called mapActionsToProps.
That's gonna be the second argument.
So we'll pass that in here.
mapActionsToProps, and then connect
returns a function which takes
the component that you want to connect to,
in this case _Todo.
>> Scott Moss: So this is saying
connect the component _Todo to Redux.
And I want these actions
attached to the props and
the only actions that we have is this
one that we made called CREATE_TODO.
So all that it's literally doing,
it looks like a lot but
all it's doing is just merging
this object into our properties.
That's all it's doing.
It's just calling merge and
like here, here's the property.
That's all it's doing.
And the reason it does that because it
wants to attach it to the properties
because when the props
of a component update,
the render function will be called again.
And that way our app is always
in sync with the state.
But that's all it's doing.
It's nothing fancy.
It's just a merge on the props.
So now we can say up top,
this.props.createTodo,
which is going to be calling this method.
Does that makes sense?
So when we say this.props.createTodo,
we pass in this.state.newTodo.
It's going to dispatch this action,
which is then gonna go into the reducer.
Hit this, create a new state for us and
then now all we need to do is just
subscribe to that state somewhere and
our app will just be like magic.